ARTICLE 36: Amend Certain Bylaws Related to the Department of Public Works

Quick facts
- Category: Governance
- Sponsor: Select Board
- Vote threshold: Majority
- Key: Title updates only
- Stakes: low
- Recommendation: no-action (FinCom)
- Result: tbd

Journalist notes (tracker)
- Purely cosmetic bylaw cleanup. Replaces the obsolete title ‘Surveyor of Highways’ with ‘Department of Public Works director’ wherever it appears in the town bylaws. No policy change, no financial impact. FinCom made no recommendation.

Primary source (warrant text)
ARTICLE 36: Amend Certain Bylaws Related to the Department of Public Works – Housekeeping 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead Bylaws related to the Department 
of Public Works to ensure uniformity and accuracy, as follows (underline and bold is new 
language and cross out is removed language). 
 
Chapter 45, Article II, §45-5. Composition. 
Said Department shall be comprised of the Highway Department, the Storm Water (Storm Sewer) 
Department the surface drain construction department, and the Tree Department. 
 
Chapter 106, Article I, §106-1. Physical examination required. 

 
 
 
 
Any person for any of the following positions, before becoming an employee of the Town, shall 
submit to a physical examination by a reputable doctor to be designated by the Select Board. 
Those positions are: 
 
Fire fighters 
EMTs 
Police officers 
Any employee that works under the water department, sewer department, drains or department 
of public works, tree department, highway department 
Recreation and Parks employees 
Board of Health employees 
Inspectors 
Custodial staff 
Animal Control employees 
Cemetery employees 
Harbor Master employees 
And any other position which the Human Resources Director or, if there is none, the Town 
Administrator determines to be in the best interest of the Town to require a physical examination 
prior to employment with the Town. 
 
Chapter 162, Article I, §162-2. Excavations. 
A. No person, except the Department of Public Works Director Highway Surveyor, in the lawful 
performance of the Surveyor's Director’s duties, or those acting under the Director’s 
Surveyor's orders, shall make or cause to be made any excavation in a public street or way, for 
any purpose whatever, without having first obtained written permission from the Surveyor of 
Highways Director acting for and in behalf of the Select Board. 
 
B. When an excavation is made in a street for any purpose, the person or persons by whom or for 
whom such excavation has been made shall cause a rail or other sufficient fence to be placed 
so as to enclose such excavation, and the dirt, gravel or other material thrown therefrom, and 
such fence shall be maintained the whole time that such excavation continues. 
 
C. Such rail or fence, excavation and material excavated shall be lighted by a lantern, lanterns, or 
other proper and sufficient light, from the beginning of twilight throughout the whole of every 
night, during the entire time that such excavation or construction exists. 
 
Chapter 162, Article II, §162-7. Notice. 
A. Whenever the Select Board or the Department of Public Works Director Surveyor of Highways 
are about to construct or repair any street or way, the surface of which is paved with block or 
macadam or rolled, they may, before beginning the work, give reason of such intention to the 
departments of the Town, to corporations liable to be affected thereby, and to all abutting 
owners having connections by drains or otherwise with structures in the street. 
 
B. If any such parties have any work to be done in such public streets or ways, they shall consult 
and arrange with said Select Board in order that such work may be done before the surface of 
such way is again prepared for and opened to the public travel. After such notice and 
opportunity has been given, no such parties shall, for the space of three years, break up or 

 
 
disturb the surface of said street or way within the area so constructed and repaired, except 
in case of reasonable necessity.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article
---
or 
other modifications in the structure of the Town government which may lead to greater 
efficiency or economy in the carrying out of the public works. 
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Public Works Committee. 
 
Recommendation: No recommendation under this article. 
 
ARTICLE 36: Amend Certain Bylaws Related to the Department of Public Works – Housekeeping 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead Bylaws related to the Department 
of Public Works to ensure uniformity and accuracy, as follows (underline and bold is new 
language and cross out is removed language). 
 
Chapter 45, Article II, §45-5. Composition. 
 
 
 
 
Said Department shall be comprised of the Highway Department, the Storm Water (Storm Sewer) 
Department the surface drain construction department, and the Tree Department. 
 
Chapt

Assets
- PDF: ./article-36.pdf
- Images: ./article-36-p01.png (and more if multi-page)
