ARTICLE 21
Title: Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
Sponsor: Select Board

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 21: Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District
- To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget of the Essex
- North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2026,
- and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action
- relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board.

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 21: Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District 
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget of the Essex 
North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2026, 
and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action 
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
c Works) 
D. Special Clerk (Water & Sewer Department) 
E. Office Assistant (Town-Wide Administrative) 
F. Technical Services Assistant (Abbot Public Library) 
G. Temporary Special Clerk (Solid Waste Department) 
H. Assistant Engineer (Department of Public Works) 
I. 
Public Health Nurse (Health Department) 
J. Senior Clerk (Police Department) 
 
 
ARTICLE 21: Essex North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District 
To see if the Town will vote to approve the gross operating and maintenance budget of the Essex 
North Shore Agricultural and Technical School District for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2026, 
and appropriate a sum of money for the Town’s assessment of the same, or take any other action 
relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: That the sum of $749,920 be appropriated, to be raised by taxation. 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 22: Available Funds Appropriate to Reduce Tax Rate 
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the free cash balance in the hands of
