ARTICLE 10
Title: Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
Sponsor: Select Board

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 10: Capital Improvements for Public Buildings
- To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for remodeling,
- reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or School buildings,
- infrastructure, and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware and
- software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or
- take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board.

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 10: Capital Improvements for Public Buildings 
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for remodeling, 
reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or School buildings, 
infrastructure, and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware and 
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or 
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
l appropriation in the Capital Budget, or take any action relative 
thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: That the sum of $510,682.00 be appropriated, and to meet this appropriation; 
$236,077.00 to be transferred from Waste Revolving Fund, and $274,605.00 is to be appropriated from free 
cash. To include the following: 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 10: Capital Improvements for Public Buildings 
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of money for remodeling, 
reconstructing and making extraordinary repairs to existing Town or School buildings, 
infrastructure, and the purchase of necessary equipment including computer hardware and 
software to determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise, or 
take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: No recommendation under this article. 
 
Comment: There are no capital requests at this time. 
 
ARTICLE 11: Walls and Fences 
To see if the Town will vote
