ARTICLE 35
Title: Amend General Bylaw, Public Works Committee
Sponsor: Public Works Committee

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 35: Amend General Bylaw, Public Works Committee
- To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaw Article VII, Section
- 24-15, Public Works Committee, as follows (underline and bold is new language and cross out is
- removed language).
- Public Works Committee
- § 24-15. Membership; officers; report; duties.
- A.
- The Superintendents of the Sewer, Water and Sewer, of Recreation and Park, Municipal
- Light, and of Cemetery Departments;, General Manager of Municipal Light; the Surveyor of
- Highways, the Health Directors of Public Works, of Public Health and of Community

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 35: Amend General Bylaw, Public Works Committee 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaw Article VII, Section 
24-15, Public Works Committee, as follows (underline and bold is new language and cross out is 
removed language). 
Public Works Committee 
 
§ 24-15. Membership; officers; report; duties. 
A. 
The Superintendents of the Sewer, Water and Sewer, of Recreation and Park, Municipal 
Light, and of Cemetery Departments;, General Manager of Municipal Light; the Surveyor of 
Highways, the Health Directors of Public Works, of Public Health and of Community 
Development and Planning;, the Town Engineer;, the Wire Inspector, the Tree Warden; and 
the Building Commissioner; Fire Chief; Police Chief; and the Town Administrator, shall constitute 
a Public Works Committee for the Town. The Committee shall appoint one of the members 
of the Committee to be Chair and may from time to time remove and replace the individual 
and appoint someone to act in the individual's place during that individual's absence. It shall 
be the Chair's duty to call and preside at the meetings of the Committee. The Chair and it 

 
 
shall file a written report to be included in the Town Report upon the activities, 
accomplishments, and proposals of the Committee. The Committee shall from time to time 
elect or designate a Secretary who shall keep minutes of the meetings and give notice of all 
regular and special meetings. The Committee shall meet at least once each month quarterly 
at a time and place designated by the Chair. 
B. 
It shall be the duty of the Committee: 
(1) To coordinate the work of the several departments engaged in public works for the 
purpose of obtaining the most efficient use of equipment and manpower; 
(2) To make recommendations to appropriate Town officials with respect to proposed 
projects or plans within the public way, public property, or public buildings; 
(3) To make recommendations on proposed Articles to be presented at Town Meeting that 
involve the Public Way or Public Buildings; 
(4) To accept public comments regarding projects and proposals within the public way, 
public property, or public buildings; 
(2) To devise uniform recordkeeping forms and procedures with reference to the use of 
manpower and personnel which will record the hours worked by each employee, the nature 
of the work done and for what department; 
(3) To devise uniform recordkeeping forms designed to show with respect to each vehicle or 
piece of equipment its utilization from day to day in terms of hours, location, project worked 
on, department for which used, and also to record mileage, maintenance, repairs, etc.; 
(4) To devise and implement so far as possible uniform personnel policies and procedures in 
all departments; 
(5) To take such steps as may be possible to bring about pooling and centralized housing, 
maintenance and repair of vehicles and equipment; 
(6) To review and implement communication procedures to the end that citizens' needs and 
requests may always be known and attended to promptly; 
(7) To continuously explore opportunities for joint purchasing, both among the departments 
engaged in public works and also with other Town departments; 
(8)To coordinate requests for capital equipment appropriations and purchases and to 
develop joint manpower forecasts for planning and budgeting purposes; 
(9) (5) To make recommendations to appropriate Town officials respecting the combining or 
elimination of departments, the transfer of functions from one department to another or 
other modifications in the structure of the Town government which may lead to greater 
efficiency or economy in the carrying out of the public works. 
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Public Works Committee.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
repeal Article VII Public Works Committee Section 24-15 of the 
Marblehead General Bylaws, and thereby dissolve the Public Works Committee, or take any other 
action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: No recommendation under this article. 
 
Comment: The article is no longer being brought forward by the sponsor. 
 
ARTICLE 35: Amend General Bylaw, Public Works Committee 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead General Bylaw Article VII, Section 
24-15, Public Works Committee, as follows (underline and bold is new language and cross out is 
removed language). 
Public Works Committee 
 
§ 24-15. Membership; officers; report; duties. 
A. 
The Superintendents of the Sewer, Water and Sewer, of Recreation and Park, Municipal 
Light, and of Cemetery Departments;, General Manager of Municipal Light; the Surveyor of 
Highways, the Health Directors of Public Works, of Public Health and of Community 
Development and Planning;, the Town Engineer;, the
