ARTICLE 5: ADU bylaw amendments

Quick facts
- Category: Zoning
- Sponsor: Planning Board
- Vote threshold: Two-thirds
- Key: Short-term rental threshold: 90 → 31 days
- Stakes: medium
- Recommendation: no-action (FinCom)
- Result: tbd

Journalist notes (tracker)
- Updates the town’s accessory dwelling unit bylaw to comply with a new state ADU law. Key changes: removes the bedroom cap on ADUs, lowers the short-term rental threshold from 90 to 31 days and adds Zoning Board of Appeals review for ADUs on nonconforming lots. These are largely technical adjustments. FinCom found no measurable financial implications and made no recommendation. Requires a two-thirds supermajority because it amends the zoning bylaw.

Primary source (warrant text)
ARTICLE 5: Amend Zoning Bylaw - Accessory Dwelling Units 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead Zoning Bylaws Accessory Dwelling 
Units, as follows (underline and bold is new language and cross out is removed language) and 
change all the rubrics accordingly. 
 
§ 200 Article IX, § 200-42. Accessory dwelling units. 
A. Purpose. This section authorizing the provision of accessory dwelling units is intended to: 
(1) Increase the number of small dwelling rental units available in the Town; 
(2) Increase the number of affordable rental units available in Town; 
(3) Increase the range of choice of housing accommodations to meet the needs of 
households; 
(4) To increase the supply of housing and the diversity of housing options, in response to 
demographic changes such as smaller households and older households; 
(5) To encourage the efficient use of the Town's housing supply while preserving the 
character of the town's neighborhoods; 
(6) To maximize privacy, dignity, and independent living among family members preserving 
domestic family bonds as well as to protect the stability, property values, and the 
residential character of the neighborhood. 
 
B. General requirements. 
(1). Accessory dwellings units shall only be permitted in a zoning district that permits single-
family residential dwellings. 
(2). No more than one accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted for each principal dwelling 
unit. 
(3). Accessory dwellings units are only allowed in or as an accessory to Principal Dwellings 
single-family dwellings. 
(4). Accessory dwelling units are allowed within or attached to an existing Principal 
Dwelling single-family structure or detached accessory building that is affixed to a 
foundation with a permanent foundation and that is accessory to an existing Principal 
Dwelling single-family structure. 
(5). Short-term rentals, as defined, are prohibited in both the accessory and principal 
dwelling units. 
 

 
 
 
 
C. Exterior appearance and size. The accessory dwelling unit shall be designed to maintain the 
appearance and essential character of the Principal Dwelling a one-family dwelling with accessory 
structures, subject further to the following conditions and requirements: 
(1). Where two or more entrances exist on the front facade of a dwelling, one entrance shall 
appear to be the principal entrance and other entrances appear to be secondary. 
(2). All stairways to the accessory dwelling unit above the first floor shall be located on the 
rear or side of the dwelling. 
(3). The accessory dwelling unit shall not contain in excess of 900 square feet of gross floor 
area or exceed 50% of the gross floor area of the principal dwelling, whichever is less. 
(4). The accessory dwelling unit shall not contain more than two bedrooms. 
(45). The accessory dwelling unit shall meet all regulations of the Board of Health. 
(56). The accessory dwelling unit shall be clearly subordinate in use, size and design to the 
principal dwelling. 
 
D. Procedure. For all detached accessory dwelling units or accessory dwelling units which require 
a change in footprint or height and which are attached to the principal dwelling, shall require Site 
Plan Review by the Planning Board in accordance with section 200-38 hereof and which the 
Planning Board shall approve or approve with conditions but shall not deny. 
 
Any accessory dwelling unit which is proposed on a pre-existing non-conforming lot shall be 
subject to review by the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to G.L. c. 40A sec. 6 which shall 
consider the issuance of a finding that the proposed accessory dwelling unit is not substantially 
more detrimental to the neighborhood than the existing non-conforming structure(s) located 
thereon. Said review shall ONLY consider any extension or intensification of existing non-
conformities. In the event the proposed accessory dwelling unit is located within all required 
setbacks and does not intensify the open area requirements, then no review by the Zoning 
Board shall be required. The Zoning Board of Appeals may not consider the use but only the 
impact on the dimensional standards when considering the finding. 
 
E. Additional conditions and requirements for all accessory dwelling units. 
(1) The accessory dwelling unit must be capable of being discontinued as a separate 
dwelling unit without demolition of any structural component of the principal dwelling. 
(2) There shall be no occupancy of the accessory dwelling unit until the Building 
Department has issued a certificate of occupancy certifying that the principal dwelling 
and accessory dwelling unit are in compliance with all applicable health and building 
and fire codes. 
(3) The building permit/certificate of occupancy shall be revoked upon determination by 
the Building Inspector that any condition imposed by the Town has not been fulfilled. 
(4) By filing the application for a building permit for an accessory dwelling unit, all owners 
consent to an inspection upon reasonable notice by the Building Inspector to ensure 
compliance with all terms of this section. 
(5) Parking for accessory dwelling units there shall be one additional parking space per 
accessory dwelling unit which is in addition to what is required for the principal use. 
Except if the ADU is located within ½ mile form a commuter rail station, subway station, 
ferry terminal or bus station no parking is required. A bus station is defined as a location 
serving as a point of embarkation for any bus operated by a Transit Authority. For routes 
that allow flag stop locations where passengers may signal for a bus to stop at any point 
along its designated route, the entire route shall be considered a Bus Station. 

 
 
 
 
 
F. Enforcement and termination. In addition to the authority of the Building Commission under 
any other provisions of this bylaw, statute or regulations, the following shall apply: 
(1) It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to administer and enforce the 
provisions of this bylaw. 
(2) No building shall be constructed or changed in use or configuration until the Building 
Commissioner has issued a permit. 
(3) Any new building or structure shall conform to all adopted state and Town laws, bylaws, 
codes and regulations. No building shall be occupied until a certificate of occupancy has 
been issued by the Building Inspector where required. 
(4) The Building Commissioner shall issue a cease-and-desist order on any work in progress 
or on the use of any premises, either of which are in violation of the provisions of this 
chapter. 
(5) The accessory dwelling unit use shall terminate immediately upon any violation of any 
term or condition of this bylaw that the owner fails to appeal or cure, upon 30 days' 
written notice mailed to the applicant and to the occupants at the dwelling address by 
certified mail, return receipt requested. 
(6) Duties of owner upon termination include: 
(a) 
The owner shall discontinue the use of the accessory dwelling unit as a separate 
dwelling unit. 
(b) 
The kitchen facilities of the accessory dwelling unit shall be removed. 
(c) 
Any additional exterior entrance constructed to provide access to the accessory 
dwelling unit shall be permanently closed. 
 
G. Severability. All the clauses of this bylaw are distinct and severable, and if any clause shall be 
deemed illegal, void, or unenforceable, it shall not affect the validity, legality, or enforceability of 
any other clause or portion of this bylaw. 
 
H. Definitions. For the purpose of this Section 200-42 the following words shall have the following 
meanings: 
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT 
A self-contained housing unit, inclusive of sleeping, cooking and sanitary facilities on the same lot 
as a principal dwelling, subject to otherwise directly from the outside or through an entry hall or 
corridor shared with the principal dwelling sufficient to meet the requirements of the state 
building code for safe egress; (ii) is not larger in gross floor area than ½ the gross floor area of the 
principal dwelling or 900 square feet, whichever is smaller .” 
 
EXISTING DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDING – A detached accessory building that is lawfully 
existing as of the effective date of this bylaw and that has a permanent foundation. 
 
GROSS FLOOR AREA – The sum of the areas of all stories of the building of compliant ceiling height 
pursuant to the Building Code, including basements, lofts, and intermediate floored tiers, 
measured from the interior faces of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating 
buildings or dwelling units but excluding: crawl spaces, garage parking areas, attics, enclosed 
porches and similar spaces. Where there are multiple Principal Dwellings on the lot, the Gross 
Floor Area of the largest Principal Dwelling shall be used for determining the maximum size of a 
Protected Use ADU. 

 
 
 
PRINCIPAL DWELLING UNIT 
A dwelling unit permitted as a principal residential use under § 200-11 Classification of uses, 
limitation of uses. 
 
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT 
An owner-occupied, tenant-occupied or non-owner-occupied property, including, but not limited 
to, an apartment, house, cottage, condominium or a furnished accommodation that is not a hotel, 
motel, lodging house or bed-and-breakfast establishment, or accessory dwelling unit where: (i) at 
least one room or unit is rented to an occupant or sub-occupant; and (ii) all accommodations are 
reserved in advance; provided, however, that a private owner-occupied property shall be 
considered a single unit if leased or rented as such. For the purpose of this, the Accessory Dwelling 
Unit Bylaw, a short-term rental shall be anything leased for fewer than 90 31 days. 
 
Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Planning Board.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article
---
from last year is that the sub-districts included in the adoption plan have 
changed. Otherwise, the financial impact debate of this article is the same as last year. The Finance 
Committee voted 8 in favor and 1 against recommending the adoption of this article for each of the 
last two years. 
 
ARTICLE 5: Amend Zoning Bylaw - Accessory Dwelling Units 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town of Marblehead Zoning Bylaws Accessory Dwelling 
Units, as follows (underline and bold is new language and cross out is removed language) and 
change all the rubrics accordingly. 
 
§ 200 Article IX, § 200-42. Accessory dwelling units. 
A. Purpose. This section authorizing the provision of accessory dwelling units is intended to: 
(1) Increase the number of small dwelling rental units available in the Town; 
(2) Increase the number of affordable re

Assets
- PDF: ./article-05.pdf
- Images: ./article-05-p01.png (and more if multi-page)
