ARTICLE 14
Title: MWRA Local Water System Assistance Program, Interest Free Loan, Water
Sponsor: Water and Sewer 
Commission

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 14:
- MWRA Local Water System Assistance Program, Interest Free Loan, Water
- Distribution Improvements.
- To see is the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction and
- reconstruction of the water distribution system, including all incidental or related costs; and to
- authorize the treasurer with the approval of the Select Board, to borrow said sum pursuant to
- G.L. c 44 §§ 7 and 8 or any other enabling authority and to issue bonds or notes of the Town
- therefore, whether through the Massachusetts Water Recourse Authority (“MWRA”) Local
- Financial Assistance Program or federal or state loan programs, and to authorize the Town to
- apply for, accept and expend any federal or state grants or loans that may be available for the

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 14: 
MWRA Local Water System Assistance Program, Interest Free Loan, Water 
Distribution Improvements. 
To see is the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money for the construction and 
reconstruction of the water distribution system, including all incidental or related costs; and to 
authorize the treasurer with the approval of the Select Board, to borrow said sum pursuant to 
G.L. c 44 §§ 7 and 8 or any other enabling authority and to issue bonds or notes of the Town 
therefore, whether through the Massachusetts Water Recourse Authority (“MWRA”) Local 
Financial Assistance Program or federal or state loan programs, and to authorize the Town to 
apply for, accept and expend any federal or state grants or loans that may be available for the 
project, and further, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Water and Sewer 
Commission.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
promise any claims for damages or suits pending against the Town of Marblehead 
on account of acts which may have occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and 
storm water systems, 
 
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer 
Commissioners. 
 
Recommendation: That this article be adopted. 
 
ARTICLE 14: 
MWRA Local Water System Assistance Program, Interest Free Loan, Water 
Distribution Improvements. 
To see is the Town will vote to appropriate $3,500,000 for the construction and reconstruction of 
the water distribution system, including all incidental or related costs; and to authorize the 
treasurer with the approval of the Select Board, to borrow said sum pursuant to G.L. c 44 §§ 7 and 
8 or any other enabling authority and to issue bonds or notes of the Town therefore, whether 
through the Massachusetts Water Recourse Authority (“MWRA”) Local Financial Assistance 
Program or federal or state loan programs, and to authorize the Town t
