ARTICLE 3: Consent articles

Quick facts
- Category: Procedural
- Sponsor: Select Board
- Vote threshold: Majority
- Key: Liability, leases, contracts >three yrs
- Stakes: low
- Recommendation: favorable (FinCom)
- Result: tbd

Journalist notes (tracker)
- Bundles five routine authorizations into one vote:
-  Assume liability for state waterway work
-  Accept trust property (indefinitely postponed — none to accept)
-  Let town officers lease town-owned land and buildings
-  Let Select Board enter contracts longer than three years up to 10
-  Let Conservation Commission apply for grants
- 
- No dollar amounts attached; no trust property to accept this year. FinCom voted to recommend adoption.

Primary source (warrant text)
ARTICLE 3: Consent Articles 
To see if the Town will vote to approve the following consent articles: 
 
a. Assume Liability 
That the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the 
General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be performed by the 
Massachusetts Department of Transportation for the improvement, development, maintenance 
and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams, harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and 
shores along a public beach in accordance with Section 11 of Chapter 91 of the General Laws and 
authorize the Select Board to execute and deliver a bond of indemnity therefore to the 
Commonwealth. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
b. Accept Trust Property 
That the Town will vote to accept certain trust property, gifts or grants to be administered by the 
Town or modify the terms thereof. Sponsored by Town Counsel. 
 
c. Lease Town Property 
That the Town will vote to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to let or lease such land, 
buildings or structures owned by the Town on such terms as they may determine. Sponsored by 
the Select Board. 
 
d. Contracts in Excess of 3 Years 
That the Town will authorize the Select Board, pursuant to G. L. c. 30B § 12, to enter into contracts 
in the best interest of the Town in excess of three (3) years but not more than ten (10) years. 
Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
e. Financial Assistance for Conservation 
That the Town will vote to authorize the Conservation Commission and other proper officers of 
the Town to apply for financial assistance from public and private sources to be expended by the 

 
 
Conservation Commission for the purchase of vacant land and any other purpose, authorized by 
Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General Laws as amended, or to reimburse the Town for sums of 
money expended for such purposes or both. Sponsored by the Conservation Commission. 
 
or take any other action relative thereto.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article
---
cle. 
 
ARTICLE 2: Reports of Town Officers and Committees 
To receive the report of the Town Accountant, the reports of the Town Officers, and special 
committees, or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: No recommendation under this article. 
 
ARTICLE 3: Consent Articles 
To see if the Town will vote to approve the following consent articles: 
 
a. Assume Liability 
That the Town will assume liability in the manner provided by Section 29 of Chapter 91 of the 
General Laws, for all damages that may be incurred by work to be performed by the 
Massachusetts Department of Transportation for the improvement, development, maintenance 
and protection of tidal and non-tidal rivers and streams, harbors, tidewaters, foreshores and 
shores along a public beach in accordance with Section 11 of Chapter 9

Assets
- PDF: ./article-03.pdf
- Images: ./article-03-p01.png (and more if multi-page)
