ARTICLE 12: Stormwater construction

Quick facts
- Category: Capital
- Sponsor: Select Board
- Vote threshold: Majority
- Key: $200,000 from taxation (cut 50 percent from $400K)
- Stakes: low
- Recommendation: favorable (FinCom)
- Result: tbd

Journalist notes (tracker)
- Funds the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the town’s stormwater drainage system, including federally mandated programs like catch basin cleaning and illicit discharge elimination. Cut from $400K to $200K this year. DPW says $200K will barely cover regulatory requirements and the department may need to dip into prior-year carryover to finish catch basin cleaning. The five-year capital plan identifies $10M in stormwater work. Historically, the town has done a $2M-$5M stormwater debt exclusion every five years; that cycle is due. The cut also slows the paving program because streets with known stormwater issues cannot be repaved until the drainage is fixed. FinCom voted to recommend the $200,000 appropriation.

Primary source (warrant text)
ARTICLE 12: Stormwater Construction: 
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or otherwise fund a sum of money for the 
construction, reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of Town’s stormwater system for 
surface drainage, including engineering services in connection therewith, and for general 
Department of Public Works purposes as they relate to the Town’s stormwater system, including 
the purchase or lease of equipment, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire 
by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore, and to 
raise the money for such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, to be 
expended by the Department of Public Works, or to take any other action relative thereto. 
Sponsored by the Select Board.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article
---
the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: That the sum of $25,000 be appropriated, to be raised by taxation. 
 
Comment: In FY26, this article appropriated $50,000. As a result of the deficit, this article has been 
decreased by 50% year-over-year. It will need to be brought back up in future years. 
 
ARTICLE 12: Stormwater Construction: 
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or otherwise fund a sum of money for the 
construction, reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of Town’s stormwater system for 
surface drainage, including engineering services in connection therewith, and for general 
Department of Public Works purposes as they relate to the Town’s stormwater system, including 
the purchase or lease of equipment, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire 
by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or e

Assets
- PDF: ./article-12.pdf
- Images: ./article-12-p01.png (and more if multi-page)
