ARTICLE 12
Title: Stormwater Construction:
Sponsor: Select Board

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 12: Stormwater Construction:
- To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or otherwise fund a sum of money for the
- construction, reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of Town’s stormwater system for
- surface drainage, including engineering services in connection therewith, and for general
- Department of Public Works purposes as they relate to the Town’s stormwater system, including
- the purchase or lease of equipment, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire
- by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore, and to
- raise the money for such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, to be
- expended by the Department of Public Works, or to take any other action relative thereto.
- Sponsored by the Select Board.

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 12: Stormwater Construction: 
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or otherwise fund a sum of money for the 
construction, reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of Town’s stormwater system for 
surface drainage, including engineering services in connection therewith, and for general 
Department of Public Works purposes as they relate to the Town’s stormwater system, including 
the purchase or lease of equipment, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire 
by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore, and to 
raise the money for such purposes by the issue of bonds or notes or in any other manner, to be 
expended by the Department of Public Works, or to take any other action relative thereto. 
Sponsored by the Select Board.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
e any 
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: That the sum of $25,000 be appropriated, to be raised by taxation. 
 
Comment: In FY26, this article appropriated $50,000. As a result of the deficit, this article has been 
decreased by 50% year-over-year. It will need to be brought back up in future years. 
 
ARTICLE 12: Stormwater Construction: 
To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or otherwise fund a sum of money for the 
construction, reconstruction, permitting and maintenance of Town’s stormwater system for 
surface drainage, including engineering services in connection therewith, and for general 
Department of Public Works purposes as they relate to the Town’s stormwater system, including 
the purchase or lease of equipment, and to authorize the appropriate Town Officers to acquire 
by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, any land or easements necessary therefore, and to 
raise the money for such purposes by the issue of bonds or not
