ARTICLE 31
Title: Administrative Benefit Amendment
Sponsor: Select Board

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 31: Administrative Benefit Amendment
- To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 43 of the bylaws to provide the administrative
- employees of the Town with updated beneﬁts and to appropriate or transfer from available funds
- a sum of money to make such beneﬁts eﬀective as follows:
- Add 3 Personal Days for Administrative personnel
- Accelerate the award of a 5th week of vacation
- or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board.

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 31: Administrative Benefit Amendment 
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 43 of the bylaws to provide the administrative 
employees of the Town with updated beneﬁts and to appropriate or transfer from available funds 
a sum of money to make such beneﬁts eﬀective as follows: 
 
Add 3 Personal Days for Administrative personnel 
Accelerate the award of a 5th week of vacation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
o take any 
other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Finance Director. 
 
Recommendation: That this article be adopted. 
 
Comment: The total amount authorized for a previous borrowing was not spent at the conclusion of 
the project. This article requests that the Town formally reduce the authorized borrowing by the 
amount not needed. 
 
ARTICLE 31: Administrative Benefit Amendment 
To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 43 of the bylaws to provide the administraƟve 
employees of the Town with updated beneﬁts and to appropriate or transfer from available funds 
a sum of money to make such beneﬁts eﬀecƟve as follows: 
 
Add 3 Personal Days for AdministraƟve personnel 
Accelerate the award of a 5th week of vacaƟon 
 
 
or take any other acƟon relaƟve thereto. Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: That Chapter 43 of the Town Bylaws be amended to provide administrative 
employees with updated benefits and to appropriate funds to make such benefits effective. 
 
Comme
