ARTICLE 39
Title: Repeal Article 34, Department of Planning and Community Development

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 39: Repeal Article 34, Department of Planning and Community Development
- To repeal Article 34 as passed by 2024 Town Meeting establishing the “Department of Planning
- and Community Development” thereby eliminating, disbanding and de-funding said Department
- and all offices, positions and associations related to said Department. Or take any other action
- relative thereto. Sponsored by William Kuker and others.

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 39: Repeal Article 34, Department of Planning and Community Development 
To repeal Article 34 as passed by 2024 Town Meeting establishing the “Department of Planning 
and Community Development” thereby eliminating, disbanding and de-funding said Department 
and all offices, positions and associations related to said Department. Or take any other action 
relative thereto. Sponsored by William Kuker and others.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
ARTICLE 38: Restore Elected Terms of the Select Board to One Calendar Year 
To restore the elected terms of the Select Board to the duration of one calendar year, to take 
effect for the 2027 elections. Or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by William 
Kuker and others. 
 
Recommendation: No recommendation under this article. 
 
ARTICLE 39: Repeal Article 34, Department of Planning and Community Development 
To repeal Article 34 as passed by 2024 Town Meeting establishing the “Department of Planning 
and Community Development” thereby eliminating, disbanding and de-funding said Department 
and all offices, positions and associations related to said Department. Or take any other action 
relative thereto. Sponsored by William Kuker and others. 
 
Recommendation: In opposition to this article by a vote of 1 in favor and 8 in opposition. 
 
Comment: Three of the five positions included in the Department of Planning and Community 
Development have been cut from the FY27 balanced b
