ARTICLE 13
Title: Consent Articles, Water and Sewer
Sponsor: Board of Water and Sewer 
Commissioners

Warrant (first lines):
- ARTICLE 13: Consent Articles, Water and Sewer
- To see if the Town will vote to approve the following consent articles:
- a. Water Department Construction
- That the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the Water and Sewer
- Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of water mains, replacement of
- water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys including revenue studies and
- other general Water Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer
- Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements
- necessary.
- b. Sewer Department Construction

Warrant (full text):
ARTICLE 13: Consent Articles, Water and Sewer 
To see if the Town will vote to approve the following consent articles: 
 
a. Water Department Construction 
That the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the Water and Sewer 
Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of water mains, replacement of 
water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys including revenue studies and 
other general Water Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer 
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements 
necessary. 
 
b. Sewer Department Construction 
That the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the Water and Sewer 
Commission for the construction or reconstruction of sewers for sanitary purposes and for 
sewerage disposal, pump stations, original pumping equipment, metering equipment, safety 
equipment, replacement of said equipment, engineering, consultants, surveys, including revenue 
studies and other general Sewer Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and 
Sewer Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or 
easements necessary. 
 
c. Water and Sewer Commission Claims 
That the Town will vote to authorize the Water and Sewer Commission and the Select Board acting 
jointly to compromise any claims for damages or suits pending against the Town of Marblehead 
on account of acts which may have occurred during the construction of the water, sewer and 
storm water systems, 
 
or take any other action relative thereto. Sponsored by the Board of Water and Sewer 
Commissioners.

FinCom report snippets mentioning this article:
---
any other action relative thereto. 
Sponsored by the Select Board. 
 
Recommendation: That the sum of $200,000 be appropriated, to be raised by taxation. 
 
Comment: In FY26, this article appropriated $400,000. As a result of the deficit, this article has been 
decreased by 50% year-over-year. It will need to be brought back up in future years. 
 
ARTICLE 13: Consent Articles, Water and Sewer 
To see if the Town will vote to approve the following consent articles: 
 
a. Water Department Construction 
That the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money to be expended by the Water and Sewer 
Commission for the construction, reconstruction and extending of water mains, replacement of 
water meters, appurtenances, engineering, consultants, surveys including revenue studies and 
other general Water Department purposes, and to authorize the Board of Water and Sewer 
Commissioners to acquire by purchase, eminent domain or otherwise any lands or easements 
necessary. 
 
Recommendation: That the sum
